Procedure Summary
These procedures apply to employees, students, or applicants for employment requesting accommodations under the ADA.

When an employee suspects (sees or smells smoke or flame) or sees an actual fire, the employee shall use the C.A.R.E. model:

Contain the fire if possible by closing all doors
Activate the Alarm by pulling the nearest fire alarm pull station and
Report the fire to University Police at extension 3064 or dial 911
Evacuate or Extinguish. In most cases, it is best to leave the building by using the nearest FIRE EXIT (use the stairs only) and DO NOT re-enter the building until an all clear is given by the local Fire Chief or University Police officer.
A fire extinguisher should only be used when you

Have been trained and authorized to use a portable fire extinguisher
Have the proper type for the fire you are fighting
Have first contained the fire, activated the building alarm, and reported the fire
Have your back to an unobstructed exit
NEVER fight a fire if it has left its source of origin, if you are unsure of the type of extinguisher to use, or you lack a safe way to escape should your efforts fail.

If the fire cannot be brought under control in 30 seconds, then you should abandon your efforts, close the door, and evacuate immediately.

When you hear a fire alarm

Shut off all open flames.
Safely store hazardous materials.
Leave your work location.
Shut all doors behind you as you leave.
Do not “investigate” the source of a potential fire or emergency.
Evacuate the building through the nearest Fire Exit.
Do not use elevators to exit the building during a fire alarm.
Do not re-enter the building for any reason once you have left.
Remain clear of the fire area until an “all clear” is given.
Residence Hall Process
Sleep with your bedroom doors closed and locked at night. A closed door will help slow the spread of fire, smoke, and heat. When leaving your room during an alarm, be sure to close and lock your door behind you.
The presence of smoke/heat will automatically activate the alarm system. If you discover or suspect a fire, pull the alarm and begin evacuation. If the alarm fails to operate, alert the other residents by knocking on doors and shouting a warning.
When you hear the alarm, take a coat, shoes, and a towel, and be prepared to evacuate. Do not stop for personal belongings. Never hide in closets, under beds, or in showers to avoid evacuations.
Touch the surface of your door and door knob before opening the door. If either feel hot, DO NOT open the door and do not panic, it is time to stop and think before going any further. Instead, brace yourself against the door and open it slightly, as fire can create enough pressure to push open the door if it is not held firmly.  If heat or heavy smoke is present in the hall, close the door and stay in the room.
If you cannot leave your room, seal the cracks around your doors and vents using wet towels if possible. Hang a sheet or any other type of distress signal from your window.
If the door feels cool, open it just a crack and check for smoke. If there is none, leave the building immediately.
Fire Prevention
The best defense against fire is always prevention. There are a number of things you can do to help prevent fires.
Do not use space heaters.
Smoke only in designated areas; be certain to properly extinguish all smoking materials.
Keep pathways clear; do not block exits, fire extinguishers, or sprinkler heads (18-inch Safety Zone clearance).
Limit the use of power strips; never overload an electrical outlet.
Check for frayed wires and missing grounding plugs on electrical equipment frequently.
Practice good housekeeping.
Store flammables in designated flammable cabinets.
Never prop open fire doors. Fire doors close automatically when the alarm is activated. This prevents the stairways from acting as a chimney and spreading smoke and fire throughout a building.
Fire Alarms & Safety Equipment
You may not disregard a fire alarm or fail to evacuate a building in which a fire alarm is sounding, regardless of its nature (drill, false alarm, or actual alert).
Tampering with the fire safety equipment (e.g. alarms, extinguishers, smoke detectors, sprinklers and emergency exit signs) is an exceptionally dangerous practice and a violation of fire and life safety laws.